Metadata-Version: 2.1
Name: obstacle_tower_env
Version: 4.1
Home-page: https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/obstacle-tower-env
Author: Unity Technologies
Description-Content-Type: text/markdown
License-File: LICENSE
Requires-Dist: mlagents-envs<0.19,>=0.17
Requires-Dist: gym

Obstacle Tower RL Project

This project trains a reinforcement learning (RL) agent to navigate the Obstacle Tower environment using the Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) algorithm. The agent learns to solve procedurally generated levels by interacting with the environment and receiving rewards for progress.

The code supports both a custom PPO implementation and an optional integration with Stable-Baselines3 for easier experimentation.

Prerequisites

Before setting up the project, ensure you have the following installed on your system:

- Python 3.7 or higher: Download Python from https://www.python.org/downloads/
- Conda: Install Miniconda or Anaconda from https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html
- Git: For cloning the repository (optional but recommended)
- Unity ML-Agents: Required for the Obstacle Tower environment

Additionally, you will need to download the Obstacle Tower executable:
- Obstacle Tower Executable: Download the appropriate version for your operating system from the Obstacle Tower Releases at https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/obstacle-tower-env/releases. Place the executable in the ObstacleTower/ directory within your project folder.

Project Structure

The project is organized as follows:

Group-14-oc-rl/
│
├── ObstacleTower/               Directory for the Obstacle Tower executable
│   └── obstacletower            Place the executable here
│
├── src/
│   ├── train.py                 Main training script (custom PPO)
│   ├── train2.py                Optional: Training with Stable-Baselines3
│   ├── model.py                 Neural network architecture
│   ├── ppo.py                   Custom PPO algorithm implementation
│   ├── utils.py                 Utility functions (e.g., normalization, saving)
│   └── obstacle_tower_env.py    Obstacle Tower environment wrapper
│
├── logs/                        Directory for saving checkpoints and logs
│
├── requirements.txt             Full list of Python packages from the development environment
│
└── README.md                    This file

Environment Setup

1. Clone the Repository (Optional)

If the project is hosted on a version control system like Git, clone it to your local machine:

git clone https://github.com/your-repo/Group-14-oc-rl.git
cd Group-14-oc-rl

Alternatively, download the project files manually.

2. Create a Conda Environment

This project uses a Conda environment for dependency management. Create and activate it as follows:

conda create -n new-175-rl python=3.9
conda activate new-175-rl

3. Install Dependencies

Option A: Minimal Installation (Recommended for New Users)

Install only the essential packages required to run the project:

conda install pytorch torchvision torchaudio cudatoolkit=11.8 -c pytorch  # For GPU support (adjust for your CUDA version or use -c pytorch-cpu for CPU)
pip install numpy pillow mlagents_envs

If you want to use Stable-Baselines3 (optional for train2.py):
pip install stable-baselines3

Option B: Full Reproducibility with requirements.txt

To replicate the exact environment used during development, use the provided requirements.txt file:

conda install pytorch torchvision torchaudio cudatoolkit=11.8 -c pytorch  # Install PyTorch first with Conda for better compatibility
pip install -r requirements.txt

Note: The requirements.txt includes additional packages not strictly necessary for this project (e.g., matplotlib, pandas). This ensures full reproducibility but may take longer to install.

4. Download and Place the Obstacle Tower Executable

- Download the Obstacle Tower executable for your operating system from Obstacle Tower Releases at https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/obstacle-tower-env/releases.
- Place the executable in the ObstacleTower/ directory within your project folder.
  - For example, on Windows, the file should be ObstacleTower/obstacletower.exe.

Running the Code

1. Activate the Conda Environment

Ensure your Conda environment is activated:
- Windows:
  conda activate new-175-rl
- macOS/Linux:
  conda activate new-175-rl

2. Navigate to the Project Directory

cd path/to/Group-14-oc-rl

3. Run the Training Script

To train the agent using the custom PPO implementation:

python -m src.train --realtime

- --realtime: Optional flag to enable real-time visualization of the agent's actions in the Unity window.

Alternatively, to use the Stable-Baselines3 version (if you installed it):

python -m src.train2 --realtime

4. Monitor Training

- The Unity window will open, showing the agent interacting with the environment.
- Training logs (e.g., episode rewards) will be printed to the console.
- Checkpoints are saved periodically in the logs/checkpoints/ directory.

How the Code Works

- Environment: The Obstacle Tower environment is a procedurally generated 3D tower with increasing difficulty. The agent must navigate floors, avoid obstacles, and solve puzzles to progress.
- Observation Preprocessing: Observations are resized to (84, 84, 3), transposed to (3, 84, 84), and normalized to [0, 1] for the neural network.
- Action Space: The environment uses a MultiDiscrete action space with four components (movement, rotation, jump, and interaction), which is flattened into a single discrete space for the policy.
- PPO Algorithm: The agent uses Proximal Policy Optimization to learn a policy that maximizes cumulative rewards. The custom implementation includes frame stacking, reward shaping, and entropy regularization to improve learning.

Troubleshooting

- Missing Dependencies: Ensure all required packages are installed. Run conda list or pip list to check.
- Incorrect Executable Path: Make sure the Obstacle Tower executable is in the ObstacleTower/ directory and named correctly (e.g., obstacletower.exe on Windows).
- Unity Window Not Opening: Check if the executable path is correct and that your system supports graphical output.
- CPU vs. GPU Usage: If you have a GPU but the code uses CPU, ensure PyTorch is installed with CUDA support (e.g., via conda install pytorch ... -c pytorch).
- Seed Warnings: The environment may warn about invalid seeds; this is normal and will use a random seed within the valid range.

For additional help, refer to the Obstacle Tower documentation at https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/obstacle-tower-env or the Stable-Baselines3 documentation at https://stable-baselines3.readthedocs.io/en/master/.

License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.
